#summary Hadoop Based Proteomic Search engine

= Introduction =

Shotgun Proteomics involves large search problems comparing many spectra with possible peptides. As researchers  apply modifications and consider alternate cleavages, the search space grows by a few orders of magnitude. Modern searches strain the resources of a single machine. We have an implementation which uses the Hadoop version of Google's Map-Reduce algorithm to search Proteomics databases.
 
 


= Details =

Shotgun Proteomics involves large search problems comparing many spectra with possible peptides. As researchers  apply modifications and consider alternate cleavages, the search space grows by a few orders of magnitude. Modern searches strain the resources of a single machine. We have an implementation which uses the Hadoop version of Google's Map-Reduce algorithm to search Proteomics databases.
 
= Settable Properties = 
All properties are stored in a the same property set used by X!Tandem parameters. All names start with  _italic_org.systemsbiology _italic_ to avoid conflicts with properties used by other systems

== Job Properties ==
|| *Property* || *Description* || *Sample* ||
|| org.systemsbiology.aws.UseSpotMaster|| use spot intances || yes ||
|| org.systemsbiology.aws.ClusterSize|| Number of instances || 10 ||
||org.systemsbiology.aws.KeepClusterAfterJob|| if true leave the cluster running || yes ||
||org.systemsbiology.aws.InstanceSize|| A size designated by aws || C1Medium ||

== Cluster Properties ==
|| *Property* || *Description* || *Sample* ||
|| org.systemsbiology.aws.UseSpotMaster|| use spot intances || yes ||
|| org.systemsbiology.aws.ClusterSize|| Number of instances || 10 ||
||org.systemsbiology.aws.KeepClusterAfterJob|| if true leave the cluster running || yes ||
||org.systemsbiology.aws.InstanceSize|| A size designated by aws || C1Medium ||


== Amazon Properties ==
|| *Property* || *Description* || *Sample* ||
|| org.systemsbiology.aws.UseSpotMaster|| use spot intances || yes ||
|| org.systemsbiology.aws.ClusterSize|| Number of instances || 10 ||
||org.systemsbiology.aws.KeepClusterAfterJob|| if true leave the cluster running || yes ||
||org.systemsbiology.aws.InstanceSize|| A size designated by aws || C1Medium ||